- [Instructor] Java EE allows us to build
web socket server endpoints using several annotations
defined within the web socket API.
Lets build our first server endpoint
using an annotation based approach.
To do that, we're going to work within our JSF project
and create a new class in the com.linkedin.jsf package.
So just go ahead, create a class
and we're going to call this the help server socket endpoint
and go ahead and create the class.
And then on this class, we're going to add
the server endpoint and you'll remember
this is one of the web socket annotations
that allow us to declare an endpoint for our web socket.
Within that annotation, we need to provide
a path for the web socket.
In this case, it's going to be /socket/help.
Now within this class, we're going to create three methods.
The first is going to be onOpen
and this method will be invoked when a session is opened.
And then we're just going to go ahead,
we'll copy this method and paste it three times
and then we're going to change the name of the method
in order to create our other methods
which are going to listen in on the web socket life cycle.
So an important one is the onMessage method
and this receives two parameters.
The first is going to be the message
which will be of type string
and then it also receives the session.
And then our final method that we're going to create
is onClose and we don't need to grab the session here.
Okay, with these in place, lets go ahead,
import the session type, make sure that you select
the javax.websocket.session type
or else you'll have some problems there.
And now we can add those annotations
that hook the method into the web socket life cycle
so there's the onOpen annotation,
here's the onMessage annotation
and then you can probably guess, onClose.
And now these methods will be invoked
whenever these events occur in the life cycle
of the web socket.
So lets go ahead and we're going to create a new list.
I'll make the list static of sessions
and this list of sessions is going to hold
all of the clients and their sessions
connected to our server endpoint.
And the reason we want to do this is
so that we can broadcast out to every client
when we do receive a message.
So within the onOpen method, lets first
just add some console output.
We'll say connect it to the client and then from here,
we're going to go ahead and actually add
the session into our list and we can just kind of
keep those sessions as they connect.
Now inside of the onMessage method,
we're going to do a couple things.
This method is going to be invoked
when our server endpoint receives a message from a client
and we're just going to kind of reflect
and broadcast that out to every client that is connected.
So we can go ahead and use the Java eight stream
and for every session within the list,
we're going to send them the message
that was received by the server endpoint.
So we have the session here in our variable S
and then we can use the get basic remote
and that gets us a hook to the client
and then we can use the send text message.
And if you take a look,
there's several send methods that we can use.
In our case, we're just going to be sending some text
and then we'll just pass in the message
and that will be sent to all of the clients
that we're holding in that list.
Then we have to add some air handling on that method
and that's everything we're going to do
within the onMessage method.
And then lets just give ourselves some console output here
to say the connection was closed.
That way we can kind of get some visibility
into the life cycle of our web socket.
Okay with that in place, lets go ahead,
we're going to run the application.
And while that starts up, I want to show you
a tool called web socket.
So if you've ever used postman or curl,
it's kind of a way that we can force some traffic
to a web socket and it's going to help us with testing.
So lets go ahead, now I can see the application is up
and we're going to create a connection to our web socket.
So here's the URL to connect to it.
You'll notice we're not using http,
instead we're using the web socket protocol ws
and then we just specify our domain
followed by our context route and then here,
you'll notice we're hitting the socket/help path.
And if we take a look at our web socket,
it's going to match what we provided
in that server endpoint.
Okay, so lets now take a peek at the console
so we can see what's going on on the server.
I'll clear that out and lets go ahead, we'll copy this
and then we're going to add a new server
and we'll make that connection.
So there we can see we connected
to the web socket server endpoint
and then from here, we can send a message.
And because this client is a client of the server endpoint,
you'll notice the message was reflected back to it.
So here the client sent this message, send a message
and then the web socket server endpoint sent it back.
So that's a look at how we can build server endpoints
using Java EE support for web sockets.